102.Limits on fees and interest charges
(a)In general
Section 127 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1637) is amended by adding at the end the following:

(j)Prohibition on penalties for on-time payments
(1)Prohibition on double-cycle billing and penalties for on-time payments
Except as provided in paragraph (2), a creditor may not impose any finance charge on a credit card account under an open end consumer credit plan as a result of the loss of any time period provided by the creditor within which the obligor may repay any portion of the credit extended without incurring a finance charge, with respect to—

(A)any balances for days in billing cycles that precede the most recent billing cycle; or
(B)any balances or portions thereof in the current billing cycle that were repaid within such time period.
(2)Exceptions
Paragraph (1) does not apply to—

(A)any adjustment to a finance charge as a result of the resolution of a dispute; or
(B)any adjustment to a finance charge as a result of the return of a payment for insufficient funds.
(k)Opt-in required for over-the-limit transactions if fees are imposed
(1)In general
In the case of any credit card account under an open end consumer credit plan under which an over-the-limit fee may be imposed by the creditor for any extension of credit in excess of the amount of credit authorized to be extended under such account, no such fee shall be charged, unless the consumer has expressly elected to permit the creditor, with respect to such account, to complete transactions involving the extension of credit under such account in excess of the amount of credit authorized.

(2)Disclosure by creditor
No election by a consumer under paragraph (1) shall take effect unless the consumer, before making such election, received a notice from the creditor of any over-the-limit fee in the form and manner, and at the time, determined by the Board. If the consumer makes the election referred to in paragraph (1), the creditor shall provide notice to the consumer of the right to revoke the election, in the form prescribed by the Board, in any periodic statement that includes notice of the imposition of an over-the-limit fee during the period covered by the statement.

(3)Form of election
A consumer may make or revoke the election referred to in paragraph (1) orally, electronically, or in writing, pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Board. The Board shall prescribe regulations to ensure that the same options are available for both making and revoking such election.

(4)Time of election
A consumer may make the election referred to in paragraph (1) at any time, and such election shall be effective until the election is revoked in the manner prescribed under paragraph (3).

(5)Regulations
The Board shall prescribe regulations—

(A)governing disclosures under this subsection; and
(B)that prevent unfair or deceptive acts or practices in connection with the manipulation of credit limits designed to increase over-the-limit fees or other penalty fees.
(6)Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit a creditor from completing an over-the-limit transaction, provided that a consumer who has not made a valid election under paragraph (1) is not charged an over-the-limit fee for such transaction.

(7)Restriction on fees charged for an over-the-limit transaction
With respect to a credit card account under an open end consumer credit plan, an over-the-limit fee may be imposed only once during a billing cycle if the credit limit on the account is exceeded, and an over-the-limit fee, with respect to such excess credit, may be imposed only once in each of the 2 subsequent billing cycles, unless the consumer has obtained an additional extension of credit in excess of such credit limit during any such subsequent cycle or the consumer reduces the outstanding balance below the credit limit as of the end of such billing cycle.

(l)Limit on fees related to method of payment
With respect to a credit card account under an open end consumer credit plan, the creditor may not impose a separate fee to allow the obligor to repay an extension of credit or finance charge, whether such repayment is made by mail, electronic transfer, telephone authorization, or other means, unless such payment involves an expedited service by a service representative of the creditor.

.

(b)Reasonable penalty fees
(1)In general
Chapter 3 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1661 et seq.), as amended by this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following: